Can Tesla and other fully autonomous cars really work in the real world?
Man working on laptop & texting on mobile in self-driving Tesla Model S car on autopilot (Source: ShutterStock)

The new Mercedes-Benz S-Class is a hoot. It features one of the highest levels of automation found on a production Merc yet, and that includes its ability to drop you off at the curb and go looking for a parking spot, all on its own. While the feature, along with several others, hasn’t been homologated for the Indian car market, it does bring into sharp relief the role played by autonomous software in driving the technology of the future.

While the S-Class has been, for the longest time, tasked with bringing the future to present-day cars, in this regard it seems to have been beaten by the likes of Tesla, whose own Autopilot system is capable of helping you navigate off highways, respond to traffic lights, stop signs and be summoned from a parking lot, through a mobile app.

Seems like the future has arrived, except, for some of Tesla’s customers, the brand hasn’t fulfilled its promise of fully autonomous driving. With mounting lawsuits over their claim of full, functional autonomy, Tesla has been forced to reconsider just what sort of real-world self-driving capabilities they can and will continue to offer. At present Tesla charges its customers a large sum, going up to Rs 7.2 lakh for what is mistitled as its “Full Self-Driving” or F.S.D package.

In light of the constant scrutiny that Tesla’s Autopilot seems to be under, particularly from government bodies, CEO Elon Musk appears to be singing a slightly different tune with regards to its feasibility than he was known to in the past. On June 6, Musk tweeted “Generalised self-driving is a hard problem, as it requires solving a large part of real-world AI. Didn’t expect it to be so hard, but the difficulty is obvious in retrospect”.

Having realised the hard way that fully autonomous driving capabilities are extremely difficult to achieve, if not a pipe dream altogether, Musk is practising caution with his claims of full self-driving capabilities, admitting that “nothing has more degrees of freedom than reality”.

So what exactly are the factors that are holding back fully self-driven cars? And should human intervention remain a necessary part and legally mandated aspect of operating what is essentially a metal projectile