A Waymo van from above; Source: Ryan's drone

AVs still face a healthy dose of skepticism and mistrust from the general public: A March 2021 Morning Brew-Harris Poll survey found that just 48% of US adults would be somewhat comfortable in the passenger seat of an AV. And for their part, regular drivers in Phoenix show a tendency to keep the technology at arm’s length.

“What happens if there is a glitch—is there a backup system?” Antwoin, an Uber driver who lives in Phoenix, asked us. “That’s what I worry about. What if a satellite goes down and the car just goes crazy?”

Last October, Waymo published a safety report covering 6.1+ million miles of automated driving in Phoenix (and 65,000 driverless miles) from 2019 to Q3 ’20. Of the dataset’s 47 “contact events”—that’s accidents to the rest of us—18 happened IRL. 29 were simulated, with simulation software playing out how Waymo Driver would have acted had a human operator not taken over manual control.

Waymo claims that nearly all contact events involved errors or rule violations by other human drivers or “road users.” 16 were rear-end events; 15 were “angled”; 10 were sideswipes; and three were “single vehicle events” which “involved the Waymo vehicle being struck by a pedestrian or cyclist while stationary.” Finally, there was one simulated head-on collision involving “another vehicle traveling the wrong direction at night."

But this data doesn’t tell the full story. Local police reports (via the Phoenix New Times) highlight incidents in which Waymo Driver appeared to behave erratically. One cyclist told police a van would’ve hit him had he not stopped.

“I am very aware of [Waymos] when I'm running on the road or riding my bike,” Stacy, the Chandler resident, told us. “When I was on my bike, I had one creep up on me. I chose to stop and wait for it to pass because it would not go around me as I was moving.”

While these may be non-falsifiable claims, they still show a suspicion among locals. In our experience, the Waymos we took gave a wide berth to pedestrians in parking lots and cyclists on public roads. See an example here.

In a previous story about Waymo, we met Joel Ricks, a Chandler resident and Waymo One power user. Ricks has notched 160+ rides, during which he regularly tests the robotaxis’ limits and posts his reactions to his YouTube channel.

In May, Ricks posted a video titled: “Waymo Self Driving Taxi Fumbles In Construction Zone, Blocks Traffic.” His robotaxi glitches alongside traffic cones marking a closed lane. Waymo dispatches a team to extricate the vehicle, but suddenly it starts moving again...giving the impression that it’s evading the techs sent to retrieve it.

Ricks has posted dozens of hours of footage online—mostly humdrum driving clips that get fewer than 10,000 views. But the video of a Waymo glitching went viral, racking up nearly 400,000 views and making headlines around the world.
