Federal Investigation into Tesla Autopilot Defects Could Pull 765k Cars From U.S. Roads

A new federal investigation into Tesla’s possibly-defective driver assistance technology could result in the removal of hundreds of thousands of their cars from U.S. roads — and some advocates are wondering whether there might be even more regulation for Elon Musk’s brainchild on the horizon, if not the autonomous vehicle industry at large.

Following 11 incidents in the U.S. in which both Tesla’s advanced driver assistance systems and their human backstop drivers failed to prevent crashes into emergency services vehicles, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s Office of Defects Investigation announced on Monday that it will examine whether the company’s so-called “Autopilot” and “Traffic Aware Cruise Control” features are too faulty to be allowed on U.S. roads. In most of the crashes, the struck vehicles in question were parked and surrounded by “scene control measures such as first responder vehicle lights, flares, an illuminated arrow board, and road cones” that should have made the vehicles easily visible to Tesla’s sensors, the agency noted.

If the investigation results in a recall, an estimated 765,000 cars could be pulled from U.S. roads — the majority of the vehicles ever produced by the company.

The news was celebrated by safe streets advocates, many of whom say the company knowingly overstates claims about the reliability of its semi-autonomous driving technology. Despite its deceptive name, Teslas equipped with Autopilot are not, in fact, self-driving cars, but rather standard vehicles equipped with a range of driver assistance systems that are theoretically capable of automatic emergency braking, adaptive cruise control, and automatic steering on clearly marked highways, among other features. But in practice, these systems can fail while the cars’ owners are (sometimes literally) asleep at the wheel — and the car’s built-in driver monitoring systems, which do not include recommended measures like driver eye monitoring systems, are easily tricked.